secondExam.txt

date: May 26 2017 (2017/05/26)

title:
(From APS meeting)
Integrand Reduction reloaded; Algebraic Geometry and Finite Fields

abstract:
The evaluation of scattering amplitudes in quantum field theory allows us
to compare the phenomenological prediction of particle theory with the 
measurement at collider experiments.
The study of scattering amplitudes, in terms of their symmetries and 
analytic properties, provides a theoretical framework to develop techniques 
and efficient algorithms for the evaluation of physical cross sections and
differential distributions.
Tree-level calculations have been known for a long time.
Loop amplitudes, which are needed to reduce the theoretical uncertainty, are
more challenging since they involves a large number of Feynman diagrams, 
expressed as integrals of rational functions.
At one-loop, the problem has been solved thanks to the combined effect of
integrand reduction, such as the OPP method and unitarity.
However, plenty of work is still needed at higher orders, starting with 
the two-loop case.
Recently, integrand reduction has been revisited using algebraic geometry.

Algebraic geometry provides a systematic formalism to deal with integral
reduction as multivariate polynomial division, and Groebner basis plays
a main role in the reduction process.
After the reduction, outcomes can be mathematically complicated forms.
Instead of treating them symbolically to canonicalize, we can simply 
evaluate such functions on integers and reconstruct them.
This functional reconstruction uses four basic arithmetic operation, i.e., addition, subtraction, multiplication and division.
We usually perform such operations over the rational number field on 
computer systems.
The rational number field consists of an infinite set, and this fact can 
cause overflow in the intermediate step of canonicalization.
By introducing a finite field, which is a quotient ring of a prime, these
four operations are closed in a finite set and no overflows, and indeed are
more efficiently performed.
We can remap, from finite fields, the canonicalized function on the rational
field using Chinese remainder theorem.









containts:

Physics
  Scattering Amplitudes
  OPP (Multivariate Polynomial Division)
    (Facts: 4 and (4-2\epsilon) cases)

Techniques
  Algebraic Geometry
    Multivariate Polynomial Division
    Groebner basis  
  Functional reconstruction 
    Newton and Thiele interpolation methods
    Finite Fields
      Rational Number reconstruction (with CRT)
    Toward Multivariate functions

  Haskell language

    
(ttZ and ttW paper with Andrea)
  LO, NLO, and NLO(no qg) numerical evaluation of total cross section
    MG5_aMC
    Fortran

  What I did before this paper
    ttW and ttZ production at tree level
      FORM 
      Maxima


